Hi church.
My name is Adam.
I'm one of the pastors here at Reality LA and I'm sure it goes without saying, but I'll say it anyway.
I miss you.
I love you and I miss you.
I miss
Being together on Sundays, I miss seeing everyone in the courtyard.
I miss getting to shake hands and high five and give hugs and see kids running around.
I miss that so much, but I am thankful for the opportunity to at least virtually be with you today, to open God's Word and to be encouraged and comforted together.
I want to start by inviting us into this week's offering.
Part of our worship gathering every week is giving to the Lord for the work of the ministry.
We give because everything we have has come from God and we give because His Kingdom is our greatest priority in this life and in this world.
Normally, we have an opportunity to give physically.
We've always used the push pay app over the last several years.
And so that's a primary way we're giving these days.
So you can get out your cell phone if you haven't already signed up for it and go to the push pay app and you can give to the work of the ministry that way.
All right.
Today, I'm going to be preaching out of the book of Philippians chapter one versus 27 through 30.
So Philippians chapter one, 27 through 30 says, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ.
So whether that I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit with one mind striving side by side for the faith of the gospel and not frightened in anything by your opponents.
This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation,
And that from God, for it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ, you should not only believe in Him, but also suffer for His sake, engaged in the same conflict that you saw I had and now hear that I still have.
Let's pray.
Jesus, I pray for this time that we have in your word, God, that you would comfort, that you would encourage
Lord, that you would convict and challenge, that you would use this time as you see fit.
As we're experiencing our own variety of hardships and trials, as we have opportunity to hear Paul's instruction to this church, Lord, I pray that these words would fall upon our hearts in our situation, in our hardships, in our grief, to bring comfort
and to challenge us to live lives worthy of the gospel.
So we give you this time.
We pray these things in Jesus name.
Amen.
Well, recently my wife and I were reading a short devotion to our kids before bed.
It was about diamonds and how diamonds are made.
You know, a little bit of pressure, well, a lot of pressure and a lot of heat over time.
And you end up with one of the most, one of the strongest and most beautiful materials on earth.
But the short story made this comparison between diamonds and our faith when tested by difficult circumstances.
So our faith when tested by trials produces something strong and beautiful.
And I'll be honest with you, at the time, I was a little bit frustrated with what we were experiencing in life.
It was not what I wanted to hear.
I didn't want God to give me perspective.
I wanted God to just make it all go away.
But it's actually what I needed to hear that night.
I needed an eternal perspective.
I needed to remember that God is with me and my family.
I needed to remember that he's making something beautiful.
You see, the Apostle Paul was able to rejoice in his own hardships because he saw what God was doing.
He saw God doing remarkable things through it.
And here in our passage, he turns a corner to talk about the circumstances that this church in Philippi is facing.
And he's going to lead them toward an eternal perspective as well.
But at the same time, he's going to challenge them.
So comfort and exhortation are not mutually exclusive.
It's my hope for us today is that we would be comforted, where we need to be comforted, and we would be challenged, where we need to be challenged.
Thus far in the book of Philippians, Paul has spoken openly about his own trials and difficulties.
But here we get a glimpse into the life of the believing community.
We get a glimpse into the struggle of the church in Philippi.
Apparently, they're experiencing opposition.
And if that wasn't enough, this opposition seems to be creating tension within their little community.
We need to be aware of
how trials that we're facing as a community today can result in division inside the church, but it doesn't have to.
And so Paul's words here are important for us today.
He says, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ.
Now the temptation you may have as you hear this is to hear Paul saying that you need to make yourself worthy in order to receive the gospel, but that's
how our world works.
You have to prove yourself worthy and then you'll receive the promotion or the degree or whatever else it might be.
But this is not how the gospel works.
See, Jesus died for sinners to give them life and forgiveness and freedom from their sin.
And so the command to live worthy of this is a call to live according to what we have received.
If we've been given freedom from sin, then we need to live free from sin.
If we have been reconciled to God, then we should live in unity as we've also been reconciled to one another.
We need to change.
We do not need to change our lives in order to receive the gospel, but if we receive the gospel, it will change our lives.
Our circumstances may not change, but our character and our life within circumstances must reflect the gift of grace that we've received.
And times of trial and suffering are not
an off-season.
The season in Philippi, while Paul was absent from them, was not an off-season.
It'd be tempting for the church in Philippi to relax their efforts until Paul was released from prison and came to visit.
But Paul says not to wait.
He says, do this now.
He says, I want to hear about you, even if I'm absent.
It's tempting for us in this season, maybe, the season of pandemic.
and stay at home orders and all of the other difficult things going on in life to maybe tempting to relax our efforts as a church or as disciples to wait for the day when life returns to normal.
But what does that mean for this time?
What is that saying about now?
Is this time any less important?
Of course not.
In fact, I think we need to pay extra close attention to seasons of trial.
because it's in our trials that our faith is strengthened and our character revealed.
It's in moments of testing and trials that we see who we truly are.
The character that we cultivate in peaceful seasons is harvested in trial and we have an opportunity to look at that fruit and to learn from what's exposed and to respond accordingly.
Difficulty is not an excuse to run deeper into our vices or to press pause on our spiritual formation.
difficulty is not an excuse to justify our sin.
It's the time to press in.
The things that are hidden in our hearts, hidden even from us, they're exposed in times like these.
We have the opportunity to bring it to the Lord, no matter what it is.
As one of your pastors, I wanna tell you that while we may be physically distant right now, we are hearing of you.
And the ways that many of you are responding in this season, specifically regional prayer,
You all logged into yet another Zoom meeting because you value the desperation for prayer.
It's important to us.
And also the community group leaders and deacons and various other people who are taking on the responsibility of facilitating small digital gatherings throughout the city.
It's challenging and difficult to rest and receive when you're focused on caring for those around you.
And it's beautiful.
For those of you who are looking and reaching out for resources to read or to guide you through personal spiritual formation during this time, for those of you who are pressing into Jesus, for those of you who are taking time to care for people, those of you who are being generous with others who have fallen on difficult financial times, they're those on the front lines, those who got into healthcare in the first place to partner with God in his work of healing.
For the parents who have all added the title teacher to their already overwhelming list of responsibilities, and so many more, we hear about you.
And I'm proud of you.
I'm thankful for your pursuit of a life worthy of the gospel that you've received.
You're doing the very thing that Paul was urging the Philippian believers to do.
But there are some specific things that Paul calls the church to pursue.
And these are things that we should remember as well.
Specifically, Paul says, I want to hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit with one mind striving side by side for the faith of the gospel and not frightened in anything by your opponents.
For Paul, this is what it means for the Philippians to live worthy of the gospel, unity, diligence, and courage.
I'm gonna break those three things down a bit.
Unity is a primary theme throughout all of Paul's letters.
Philippians isn't any different.
The world will always provide reasons for chaos and disunity, but the gospel is about reconciliation and those who will not be reconciled and unified are not walking in step with it.
We're going to get into unity more in the coming weeks, but today it's important to recognize that there is a lot of division in the world right now.
There was division before the outbreak, and it's only increased since.
And unfortunately, this division runs through churches everywhere.
However, while we are allowed to disagree with one another about many things, we can never allow differences between brothers and sisters in Christ to bring division to the body of Christ.
We've been reconciled to God and to one another, and we need to live in light of that gospel truth.
And this is not some passive sentimental unity.
It's something that's fought for.
It's an active commitment to stand firm together, as Paul says.
And it's not only a commitment to one another, we're to strive alongside one another.
We are to not only be united, but diligent in our striving and pursuit of the gospel.
There's work to be done.
See, diligence is another thing that Paul needs to remind the church about.
When opposition or difficulty comes, we can be tempted to retreat, to lay low until it all blows over.
But Paul says that we must be ready in season and out of season.
We must be side by side striving for the faith of the gospel.
This is a diligence to cling to the gospel for ourselves as well as to share it with others.
To circumstances may not be great in Philippi, but there is still work to be done.
Church, don't let your guard down in this season.
Though your life probably looks remarkably different in this season, you're invited by God to press into him.
to look to his word, to devote yourself to prayer, and to share the good news of Jesus with people in this city who are desperate for some good news.
And as we do, we're gonna experience opposition, but we have to have courage.
This is the third thing that Paul mentions.
We've been talking a lot about courage lately.
We wanna be people driven by faith and not fear.
Likewise, Paul wants the believers in Philippi to not be frightened by their opponents.
Paul was arrested in Philippi for preaching the gospel.
As he writes this, he was put in prison in Rome for preaching the gospel.
Others are being persecuted.
Again, it would be tempting to retreat, but Paul says, stand firm together.
Be diligent.
Do not be afraid.
Remember last week that Paul says, to live is Christ and to die is gain.
It's good to live and to labor for God's glory, but we also don't need to fear even the worst fate
For the believer, death is a new beginning of life with Jesus.
But faith and lack of fear doesn't mean that we can be foolish or reckless.
I'd like to think that I trust Jesus, but I still wash my hands when I get home from the grocery store.
I'd like to think that I trust Jesus, but that doesn't mean I let my kids play unsupervised in the street.
So the call to not be afraid doesn't mean that we don't consider danger or care about the well-being of others.
It means not backing down from our faith in Jesus when the heat is turned up.
Remember, this is all about the community of disciples in Philippi, standing firm together, laboring together.
So a refusal to back down from their opponents is also a unity in the faith.
Unity, diligence, and courage, three things that we desperately need today.
Paul says that the life characterized by these things is a double edged sword.
It's a sign of two things to their opponents.
It's a sign of their opponent's destruction, but also a sign of the church's salvation.
Their unwavering faith and their unity in the midst of trial, their willingness to live and to die for what they believe was, in Paul's mind, a very powerful statement to the world.
Like the Roman centurion standing by when Jesus died, his words were, surely this was the Son of God.
And when people observing your faith in the midst of carrying your own cross, may they be able to say, surely Jesus is the Son of God because no one can face something like this by human strength.
Their God must be with them.
Our conduct in life, but especially in seasons like this will be seen and remembered.
It's in seasons like this pandemic when our faith and our character are put to the test.
And if we walk in a manner worthy of the gospel, then our faith is strengthened and our character revealed.
And the world looking in will see the power of God in our lives and in our communities.
And they will be forced to reckon with it.
My dad met Jesus two weeks after being diagnosed with cancer and the Holy Spirit completely transformed him.
His attitude toward life and other people became so full of joy.
Nobody.
could understand how a man with such a diagnosis, who was always, to be honest with you, a little bit grumpy, no one understood how that man could become so full of joy and optimism.
To this day, there are members of my family that get upset when I use my dad's life as an example of how the gospel transforms.
They get angry because they can't explain it and they don't want to be the truth to be true.
One of the evidences that we are living lives worthy of the gospel is that those around us will notice.
It's not only about what we say that we believe, it's also about what others see that we believe.
And trials create opportunities for others to see Christ in us.
And Paul says that our lives in trial is a sign to the world.
The church in Philippi is experiencing difficulty.
There's opposition from the outside and temptations toward fear and disunity on the inside.
Paul says that the gospel empowers a life of unity with other believers, a diligent pursuit and proclamation of the gospel and courage in the face of opposition.
We need this word today.
But Paul hasn't yet addressed how the church should understand the reality of their suffering.
So he moves from this exhortation.
to a theological reflection that ties this whole passage together and is going to lead us into what he'll say in the next chapter.
He uses this as an opportunity to address the nature of suffering in the Christian life.
See Paul's experience of suffering as a Christian began at his conversion when he was suddenly blinded after encountering the resurrected Jesus.
He'd also been beaten a number of times, stoned and left for dead, shipwrecked more than once, and he had some sort of ongoing physical ailment that he called the thorn in his flesh.
And now he's in prison, and he's awaiting what could be his death sentence.
He had plenty of opportunity to reflect on his experience in light of the gospel and the character of God.
He knows that there are mistakes that we can make and false conclusions we can jump to if we're not careful.
I wanna outline just three
wrong views of suffering in light of God.
The first is to think that suffering is purely bad, it must be avoided at all cost, and sometimes God punishes with suffering because he's displeased with us.
But that's just not the case, and we'll explain why.
The second one is that suffering is actually a good thing because it can accomplish good.
And so we are to celebrate suffering when it comes, but that's ridiculous.
This mistakes the opportunity that God provides through suffering with the suffering itself.
And they're not the same thing.
And a third false conclusion that we can add to these would be that suffering is just a part of life.
There's nothing you can do about it.
And God's not involved at all.
So just deal with it.
all of these fall short.
They're significantly shallow attempts to make sense of our experiences, but Paul's theology has depth to it.
His theology of suffering is profound.
For Paul, in one sense, suffering is part of life in a wounded world.
But God does not allow anything that takes place in his world to go to waste.
He doesn't afflict his people with suffering out of his displeasure with them.
If we're in Christ, then he's pleased with us.
And Christ has taken our punishment in our place.
However, he will use the suffering we experience for his purposes.
God hijacks our circumstances and his spirit directs our hearts toward him.
What may have been meant for evil, God will use for good.
And in this way, there is something to receive in suffering.
And so Paul says that not only has our faith in Jesus been granted to us, but also our suffering.
Literally this word translated granted comes from the same root as the word translated grace.
We've been graced.
We've been gifted with suffering.
Not because it's a good thing, but because Christ is revealed through us to the world when we suffer well.
Through suffering together, striving for the gospel with courage, we give a wounded world a picture of what Jesus has done to bring healing.
And the healing he brings is spiritual, it's physical, it's emotional, it's relational, it's all encompassing.
The healing he offers in his blood is healing for our minds and our hearts and our communities.
It's a promise of healing that changes the way we face illness and disease.
And it's a healing that changes the way we face political disunity and racial injustice.
Your life can be an opportunity for others to look at and say, this is what God is like.
Cause Jesus doesn't punish with violence and suffering.
He ran head on into suffering.
He took on the cross in our place and set us free from eternal suffering.
Living in light of this truth.
Following Jesus in his example means that we can stand firm.
We can stand united and we can boldly proclaim Christ with incredible courage and peace even in the midst of a storm, even in the heart of 2020.
So the way forward in suffering and difficulty is the same way forward in all of our circumstances.
We don't look at our circumstances and analyze them and try to figure them out like a puzzle and conquer them or find the right answer.
We look to Jesus.
We look to the one who suffered and died and was raised again.
We follow a Savior who was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, as the prophet said.
As disciples of a crucified Lord, we're called to pick up our cross and follow Him.
We're to embrace suffering, to embrace loss and to grieve.
As Jesus wept outside of His friends Lazarus' tomb, we feel the full weight of pain in this world.
Not as a good thing,
But as part of a life that Christ himself experienced and showed us the way through, every loss, every death deserves to be grieved.
Before it's news, before it's a topic of discussion, before it's just another statistic, it's a tragedy.
And we owe it to those who are dying, whether by COVID or by racial violence, we owe it to each individual as an image bearer of God to show them the dignity
by grieving for them.
You see, statistics can be argued.
News can be debated, but grief unites.
And as a united people, we need to grieve together.
And we need to grieve the systems and the structures and the brokenness, the woundedness in this world that's allowed to continue, that causes us to repeatedly face these losses and these tragedies.
And then united together, we strive together for the sake of the gospel.
courageously bringing healing and seeking an end to suffering in Jesus' name.
Suffering is another opportunity to follow Jesus and show the world what he is like as we embrace it for the healing of others.
Is our conduct in life worthy of the gospel?
Can you draw a straight line between your faith in Jesus and your priorities?
Specifically, can you make a direct connection between your faith in Jesus and your conduct during this pandemic or in the midst of racial tensions?
Are we suffering well?
Are we willing to suffer at all on behalf of others who are hurting?
Can we point to our pursuit of unity with other believers?
Are we diligent in our pursuit of Jesus?
Are we courageous in our faith, honest about our grief, our anger, our loneliness?
Now is time more than ever to fight for unity and the relationship that God has blessed you with.
Now is time more than ever to share the gospel, the news, the good news to people desperate to hear it.
Now is time to grieve.
But now is also a time to take courage.
Jesus promised that we would have trouble in this life, but he told us we could take heart.
We could take courage because he's overcome the world.
The worst thing that this world can throw at us is death.
Death and violence is the enemy's greatest weapon.
Death and violence is always to be grieved, and yet Jesus has disarmed the devil by proving that death can't hold him.
He's overcome.
And the reason this is encouraging for us, the reason that His overcoming the world gives us the ability to take heart is because we follow as those who follow this victorious King, those who've been united to our risen Savior, we also walk in His victory.
In Christ, we have and we will overcome, even if death should take us, like Jesus, we will be raised in glory.
So let us live our lives today in a manner worthy of this eternal truth.
As we do, we'll find ourselves and our communities like a diamond being formed into something beautiful, something that reflects the glory of our Savior.
Let's pray.
Jesus, this is what we ask of you today.
God, to change our hearts, to empower us by your spirit,
to unite us together, to be diligent side by side, striving for the gospel, to proclaiming the good things that you've done, the salvation that you've brought to us, Lord, and to be courageous, to be bold in our faith.
But there are people in this world who are desperate for good news, and that is exactly what you've given us.
That's exactly what we have.
We have good news for a broken world.
Let that truth
that eternal truth that we belong to you and that our future is secure.
Let that truth transform the way that we live today, even in difficulty, even in sorrow.
Even in grief, Lord, would you heal our wounds?
Would you comfort those who are suffering?
God, and would you empower us to be people that reflect who you are when we go through tragedy, when we go through difficulty?
God, I pray for the people of Reality LA, for the believers in this city, that when the world looks in on us and on our unity and on the way we suffer well, I pray that they would see a glimpse of what our God is like.
We pray all of these things, Lord, for your glory and the good of your people.
Amen.